JAKE ARCHIBALD: So that puts--
sorry.
Am I good?
Should I go?
SPEAKER: Yeah,
whenever you're ready.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: So--
SURMA: Blah.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
It's Christmas, isn't it?
We do the annual
Christmas special.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Well, yeah.
I mean, it's annual in that
this is the second year
that we're doing it.
I don't know--
SURMA: That
counts as annual.
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
OK, it's happened.
It's happening twice.
SURMA: It's the
second time that I'm
on "203" when it's Christmas.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: True.
Oh, happy birthday.
It wasn't Christmas when
you started last year.
SURMA: True.
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
You're not, like--
SURMA: It's the second
Christmas that I'm on "203."
JAKE ARCHIBALD: OK.
And what we did last year
is we got a bit ambitious
and we did the 12
days of Christmas.
Like, we did 12 mini-episodes,
12 bits of content.
So we changed it
around this time.
And what we decided
to do is do the World
Cup of features
that were released
or that went into
Chrome this year.
SURMA: So we
did 12 last time.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yeah, and
we're going to do 32 this time.
SURMA: Great.
Bring it.
Let's do it.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: And we're going
to find out which one the best
is.
SURMA: The best
feature of 2018.
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
Yes, arbitrarily,
just decide [INAUDIBLE].
SURMA: And
basically, each feature
will have its own
10-minute video.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yes, exactly.
No.
No, we're going to
try and keep it--
SURMA: Short, snappy.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: And one
of the things that's
going to be really annoying
for people is that--
[JINGLING]
--my jumper has bells on.
It's a very Christmasy sound.
But I'm also sweating
horribly in this jumper.
And when I do that, it's
just wafting into my face.
So I'm--
SURMA: High-quality
polyester, isn't it?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yes, it is.
It's a Primark special.
I actually quite like this.
Right.
Let's dig in.
SURMA: We want
to keep it short.
Let's go on.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: So
the first feature
that I want to talk about
is Display Contents.
SURMA: OK.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: And this, it's--
SURMA: That looks
like the title slide,
but just with a CSS
wrapped around it.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: It is.
It is.
Well spotted.
And this is how it works.
What it essentially means
is the containing element--
pretend it's not there,
in terms of layout.
So if you've got a Flexbox,
and then inside it you've
got an element that has
Display Contents and that
has three children
inside it, it will
act as if that wrapper
element isn't there.
They're all part of the Flexbox.
SURMA: But in terms of
CSS, you still respect that--
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Absolutely, yes.
SURMA: --wrapping element.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yes, good point.
SURMA: That's where
the good stuff comes in
because you can write--
you can basically
encapsulate the elements
and style them differently.
But in terms of layout, they
just bubble up, kind of.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yes.
So you might want an
element there for semantics,
but you want the children to
be part of a Flexbox or a grid.
This is how you do it.
SURMA: All right, so facing
off against that feature is--
and the feature that
I want to talk about.
And it is Reporting Observer.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: All right, OK.
SURMA: So
Reporting Observer--
I'm trying remember if I
have a code sample for this.
So Reporting Observer,
it looks like many
of the other observers
that we have.
It basically gives you a report
for any kind of deprecated API
that you're using
or for interventions
that you have triggered.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: OK,
so is this like when
we block document.writes.
SURMA: You
would get an entry
in the Reporting Observer
describing to you that you have
a reporter-type intervention.
You will get the description
and where in your source
it got triggered,
why it got triggered,
like, a lot of detail.
And then you can decide to
send it through your analytics
or do something with it.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Excellent.
So is it just all
of them by default?
Is that right?
Or is there anything-- this
doesn't look like there's
much configuration here.
SURMA: None.
As far as I know,
there's nothing.
It's just whenever you
use a deprecate API
or you trigger an intervention,
you will get a report in here.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: All right.
SURMA: That's it.
OK.
So we'll face these off
against each other, then.
And I've been developing--
I say developing.
I went to a website that
offers this feature already.
SURMA: Challenge.com.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yes.
And I've set it all up.
SURMA: Oh, look at you.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: For reals.
SURMA: Well done.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yeah, I did
a lot of copy and pasting.
So let's talk about
these two, then.
Do you have any
initial feelings?
SURMA: No.
So Reporting Observer's
probably incredibly useful,
but only for sites that
actually go to production
and actually work
for a business.
Because on my hobby sites,
my little side projects,
I'm not going to care.
So Display Contents seems more
useful to me as a developer.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: To a
wider set of developers,
maybe Reporting
Observer's going to be
more useful to big companies--
SURMA: And businesses.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: --that
track these things.
SURMA: Or not even big
companies, just businesses,
right?
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
Do you know what?
I am going to agree with you.
SURMA: All right.
So we're going to declare
Display Contents the winner.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yes.
SURMA: The first round of
the Christmas 2018 203 World
Cup of Web Features.
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
Oh, that was good.
I imagined you regretted
starting that sentence
as you went through it.
SURMA: So we now
see, in the next bracket,
we will face it off against--
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Something else.
SURMA: --something else,
which is totally not on screen
right now.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yeah, it's
a bit of spoilers there.
SURMA: Spoiler alert.
That's it.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: So that is
what I'm going to talk about.
I'm going to talk
about Scroll Snap.
SURMA: Mm, Scroll
Snap is a good one.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yeah.
So it looks like this.
And here we go.
SURMA: It's
a great feature.
I really dislike how
we did it in CSS.
It's--
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Oh,
what would you--
SURMA: I don't
really dislike it.
I find it really hard to
have an intuition for it.
Like, I have to look it up and
see what x mandatory-- like,
what is mandatory about this?
And then Scroll
Snap [INAUDIBLE]..
I get it.
Once I've read it, I understand
why we need all these options.
But in terms of the
choice of words,
it feels alien a little bit.
But that's fine.
It's a good feature to have.
It's an important
feature to have.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: It is
a high-level feature.
SURMA: Yeah.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Let's
actually demo what it does.
So you can see here,
the element is always
appearing in the middle, even
if I try to make it not do that.
And this is essentially
what Scroll Snap does.
SURMA: This is, like,
the standard gallery example,
right?
Like the carousel where you want
to really center on the image.
Oh, it's a big element.
I like it.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yes.
So it handles that as well.
I imagine it would
be useful for,
like, on Twitter,
where you have a list,
but you want to
swipe horizontally
onto a different kind of list.
SURMA: The
different panels, yeah.
That's a very common native
design layout, I think.
And it was always hard to do it.
So that's basically that,
which is pretty cool.
So facing off-- I already
forgot what was on the bracket,
but-- oh, Site Isolation.
It doesn't have the code
sample because literally, it
doesn't affect how you
write code, really, at all.
It's a security feature more
for the end user of browsers.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Right.
SURMA: And now
you can actually
correct me because you know more
about Site Isolation than I do.
But as far as I know, you
don't write code differently,
except maybe an
HTP header that you
add to up into a even
stronger Site Isolation,
but that's all that
it really changes.
But it is a good or really
important security feature.
And yet, it is our tool
against Spectre and Meltdown.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yes, exactly.
The idea of every separate site
should live in its own process,
it's something that kind
of happened in Chrome 1.
But it didn't quite
happen with IFrames,
that you'd end up with multiple
sites in the same process.
SURMA: And as a side
remark, because of this, we now
have out of [INAUDIBLE]
iframes are [INAUDIBLE]..
That's, like, a side product.
And [INAUDIBLE] are, actually,
in a way, a performance
primitive because
it blocks IFrames
from affecting the performance
of the top level site.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Absolutely.
SURMA: And you
can actually abuse
that to build little
performance containers
and run multiple
things [INAUDIBLE]
without affecting
the top level site.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: As long as all
of your browsers do it, which--
SURMA: Which they don't.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Well,
but they are going to.
SURMA: They're
working on it.
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
This is interesting
that this is not
just a Chrome thing.
Chrome has shown that
this is the right thing
to do, security-wise.
SURMA: It's the
only sensible thing
to do in a Meltdown
and Spectre world.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Exactly.
Exactly.
Well, this is a hard choice.
SURMA: I mean, we
have to kind of define
what we're looking for-- the
best feature, best developer
feature.
And these are actually
two really good features.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yeah.
So we're talking
about a CSS feature
that people have
wanted for ages.
It's a really nice high level
feature with great performance
and all that.
And we're facing
it off against what
is saving people from being
hacked and losing their data.
SURMA: Yeah, I'm going
to go with Scroll Snap points.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Are you?
SURMA: Yes.
But that's because I feel like
this is a web development show,
and I kind of like--
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
It's what developers
will care more about.
SURMA: And because it
doesn't affect development
pretty much at all,
Site Isolation.
It's just we need it.
It's important.
But it's just something
that we need in the browser.
There's nothing a developer
can do or can enhance for me.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: So it's
not really a developer
facing feature,
so we could maybe
disqualify it on those grounds?
SURMA: Pretty much.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Agreed.
SURMA: Look at that.
We have to first
second round face off.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Exactly.
So we've got here Display
Contents versus Scroll Snaps.
SURMA: This is
an easy one, honestly.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Really?
SURMA: Yeah.
I like Display Contents,
but it's not that exciting.
I don't need it that often.
Scroll Snaps, however--
JAKE ARCHIBALD: I've wanted
Display Contents quite a bit.
And I feel like I've sometimes
broken HTML semantics
because it wasn't there,
because I couldn't
put the correct wrapper
around something because I
wanted it to be in the
Flexbox with the other things.
SURMA: I guess I have a
very low threshold [INAUDIBLE]
breaking semantic
markup, honestly.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: But Scroll
Snap is quite snazzy, isn't it?
SURMA: It is very snazzy.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: It looks fancy.
SURMA: It looks fancy.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Should
we put it through?
SURMA: I'm-- yeah.
Yeah.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: All right.
OK, I'm putting
Scroll Snap through.
This is a decision being made.
There we go.
SURMA: Will it update?
This is like a little
mini [INAUDIBLE]..
Oh.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: There we go.
SURMA: Even [INAUDIBLE].
JAKE ARCHIBALD: It's
lovely, isn't it?
SURMA: Well done, yeah.
All right.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: All right.
So we're--
SURMA: Going back.
Your turn.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: My turn.
I would like to talk
about Named Workers.
This is a big hitter.
You ready?
SURMA: I am.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Are you ready?
SURMA: Show me the syntax.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Strap in.
SURMA: It's a
worker with a name.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yeah.
Who could have predicted
this happening?
SURMA: What
does this name do?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Nothing.
No.
No, it does do things.
It will improve things
like stack traces.
It will improve
things like DevTools,
especially if you've
got multiple instances
of the same URL.
It's a way to
differentiate them.
SURMA: All right.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: No, that's it.
SURMA: Oh,
cool, I think, maybe.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: It is
a feature [INAUDIBLE]
SURMA: What do we
pitch in against it?
Payment Handler.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Right.
SURMA: Disclaimer--
I literally had not looked into
a Payment Request and Payment
Handler, which are
interacting with each other.
And this is not my territory.
This is AG, and AG you
would know all about it
and would get super excited.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yes,
our colleague, AG.
SURMA: And I don't--
I have never done payment.
Like, never written a store
on the web, or maintained one,
or had my living depend on it.
So I'm guessing many
people are excited.
But I actually didn't
get it to work.
Either way.
So here's roughly how it works.
And it might be
wrong a little bit.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: OK, OK.
SURMA: So you can do
payment requests on the web,
to request a payment.
And then the browser
basically intervenes
like, hey, I'm going to do like
a very trusted [INAUDIBLE]..
You don't write.
But the browser
actually has built in,
and you can select
your credit cards
or pay with Google or with
Apple Pay, all these things.
But what if I want to pay
with some totally legit bank?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: I don't.
It sounds really suspicious.
SURMA: But I do
because it's totally legit.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: OK, excellent.
SURMA: And that is
what's Payment Handler allow
you to do.
Like, you can now write your own
Payment Handler and basically
hook into this machinery
in the browser.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: So
this is rather than--
this allows someone like
PayPal to do this without--
SURMA: I'm guessing PayPal
is already popular enough
to already be built into
most browsers, for example.
But this would allow
the more niche sites,
maybe some Bitcoin sites
or cryptocurrencies,
to do these kind of payments.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Right.
SURMA: And
the way it works is
that basically you take
the service worker,
and you register
a Payment Handler.
And you set your domain and
your clear name and your method.
I'm not quite sure
what the difference
between the first key
and the method name is,
but it's code from
more or less the guide.
And then you have a new
Payment Request Handler.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Right.
SURMA: And basically,
what you're doing here,
in all the samples
I've seen, you
do a very long running
respond with handler where
you launch a new
window and guide
the users for your
own payment flow,
and then you resolve
the [INAUDIBLE]..
You say, yep, the
person has paid.
And now the other side can--
JAKE ARCHIBALD: And that
can include bits of UI
if [INAUDIBLE].
SURMA: All
these things, yeah.
So this is obviously
super [INAUDIBLE]
because I didn't fully
understand it in the short time
that I tried to
read everything up.
But this is kind of like
a big step towards making
all of these payment
interfaces more open on the web
and everybody can
hook into that.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Fair enough.
Let's have a look at
the board for this.
Now, what we're doing
here is we're facing off
payment handlers, which really
brings the web up to par
with what Native could do.
SURMA: Yeah, pretty much.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: And
obviously, payments
are a huge part of the web.
We're facing off against
workers with a name.
Just shall I put
Payment Handler through?
SURMA: Yeah, let's
put Payment Handler through
because let's be honest.
The named workers are--
JAKE ARCHIBALD: I
mean, we have to stress
that we're not diminishing
any features that people
have worked on.
These are all important things.
It's great to have all
of these in the platform.
They became part of the
platform for a reason.
But I just think Payment
Handler's a bit bigger.
SURMA: Some features
are bigger than others,
and that's OK.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Excellent.
SURMA: Payment
Handlers has won this round.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yep.
SURMA: So let's see--
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yep,
excellent stuff.
SURMA: --what it will be
pitched against in round 2.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Now, if you
notice, something different
here.
SURMA: Oh, that's
a nice background.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: It's
a nice background
because I want to talk
about Conic Gradients.
SURMA: Is it
conic or conic?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yes.
It is one of those.
I thought It was conic.
SURMA: No.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Conic.
SURMA: I mean, I'm the--
I don't-- you know?
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
I'm from the North.
I can't speak
English either, so--
SURMA: So great.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: OK.
This is--
SURMA: I mean, the
syntax is probably well
known by everyone
because everybody
wanted to have this feature for
I don't know how many decades.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yes.
SURMA: And now
it's finally shipped.
Now we have custom
paint, but we could
have implemented it ourselves.
Now it's shipped in Chrome.
Cool.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yep, beautiful.
Yep.
That's all I want
to say about it.
SURMA: It's
literally beautiful.
And I'm pitching it
against AV1 Decoding.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Oh.
Triangle 1 decoding.
I thought we might--
I thought I'd give it
a fancy font because I
thought it would be nice.
SURMA: Mostly.
But this is, I guess,
a [INAUDIBLE] case
where it kind of unreadable.
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
It's not very nice.
SURMA: No, it's not.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: OK.
SURMA: So AV1 is a
upcoming, being worked on,
I think almost stable at
this point, video codex that
is completely free and open.
Anybody can use
it, no royalties.
And it is extremely impressive
in how efficient it is.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yes.
SURMA: And so Chrome
now has support for it.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: And it's
all open source as well.
SURMA: Yeah, the
encoders, the decoders.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: The
collaboration between Apple--
SURMA: Everything.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: --and everyone.
SURMA: There's a committee
around it and everything.
That said, so Chrome
does support it.
But obviously, we now need
hardware to decode it faster,
which most hardware doesn't
have because it's just
been standardized so it's
not been put into hardware.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: And
because of the complexity,
it's actually quite--
SURMA: Yeah.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: It's
difficult. Well, it'd
be a battery problem with
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
SURMA: I wonder if you
can put it with, like, GPGPU.
Like, use the GPU to decode it.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Oh, I see.
SURMA: But I don't
know how that works.
This is not my territory.
I am quite excited
about the format.
But I haven't played
around with it much
because it's just so new.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Right.
Well, thanks for
doing some research.
Sorry.
SURMA: That was
thanks for coming.
Get out of here.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: You're going
to throw that back at me
in some of the future things.
I think this is quite a--
it's another tough one because
we're once again facing off
quite a high-level feature that
developers have been wanting
for ages with a
huge leap forward
in not only open standards,
but in video technology.
SURMA: Yeah.
So I personally am going to
side with Conic Gradients, Conic
Gradients.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: I think people
are going to use it more.
SURMA: Format adoption
is always a hassle.
It's always sort of like--
YouTube's going to adopt it
straight up, sure, and then
detect if your browser
supports it and ship that.
Great.
But for me as a
developer, it's cool.
But then it's going to
take probably ages, again,
for browsers to adopt it.
Well, [INAUDIBLE]
was open as well.
And it took such a long time
for other browsers to adopt it.
I know that one is more detailed
and more nuances to the story.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Absolutely.
SURMA: But
I'll believe it when
I see it is my stance on AV1,
while Conic Gradients are
something that I use--
would have used a
lot on my websites.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: I
think that's right.
I think once AV1 lands--
when I do video
stuff on the web,
I tend to just dump it
on YouTube or some--
on Vimeo or some
similar service.
I don't have a lot of
contact with the codex.
So I think what
I would encounter
more is Conic Gradients.
So let's put that through.
Okey dokey.
Right.
And there it goes.
SURMA: Thanks for
pushing the button.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: No
problem, no problem.
Let's take a look--
SURMA: Wait.
Shouldn't we do the
thingamajig match-up?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Oh, you-- yes.
We should.
Exactly.
Oh, we've got a couple of
rounds to do, haven't we?
SURMA: Oh,
we're rippling up.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: So
we're now facing off
Payment Handler with Conic--
SURMA: Oh, that
feels so unfair.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: --Gradients.
SURMA: That feels
really unfair to--
Payment Handler
seems really hard
and longstanding standards work.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: And it is one of
those things that is going to--
so many things are
leaving the web
because payments is harder on
the web than it is on native.
And this brings them back.
SURMA: In that sense,
it's so crucial for the web
to survive to have these
kind of things there.
On the other hand--
JAKE ARCHIBALD: No one's made
money from Conic Gradients.
SURMA: No, but I'm still
more excited about them.
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
And do you know, I
am going to agree with you,
using the consistent logic
of what we did before.
Payment Handler is something
that a few web developers
are going to use.
SURMA: Yeah.
And in that case, it's actually
the even more niche version
of Payment Handlers.
It's not even Payment Request.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: That
is a good point.
SURMA: It's
Payment Handlers.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Right.
Right.
SURMA: So we're going
to go with Conic Gradients.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Right.
Right.
I'm going to press
the button for Conic--
I'm pretty sure it's Conic--
but Conic Gradients.
And do you know--
SURMA: And
so end up with two
CSS features in the next round.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: And we can
face these two off as well.
So I'm going to give
it to Scroll Snap.
I just think it's
going to be used more.
SURMA: I straight up agree.
It's visual.
Conic Gradients, you can usually
solve with an SVG background
image.
There's many workarounds
that are just as efficient.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: You could
use Canvas if necessary.
SURMA: Canvas, CSS
Paint, there's many things.
Scroll Snap, it's always
has been main thread bound
and weird, ugly Javascript.
You have to do all the
velocity and physics
implementation that the
operating system usually
already has.
It is such a big tool
for web developers.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Sold.
Right.
Yes.
So that puts Scroll Snap
into the semifinals.
SURMA: Interesting.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: So I think
we should stop there.
SURMA: Yeah, and keep
the rest for the next episode.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: For
another episode.
Payments is something
that a few web develop--
a few, few--
SURMA: Wallalump.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Conic
Gradients is something--
Payment Handler is--
SURMA: Thank you
for speaking English.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: [INAUDIBLE].
I try that again, I reckon.